URL: https://mikadopersonalstyling.com/style-tips-men/
Source: blog_mikadopersonalstyling.com
Title: The Top 50 Best Style Tips for Men
Scraped: 2025-11-07T03:48:54.942545
Length: 64155 chars
================================================================================

The Top 50 Best Style Tips for MenSome men look stylish and put together every time they step out. You get the sense that they don’t have to try at all and yet somehow their look just works.Perfectly.Were they born with an innate skillset you weren’t lucky enough to receive? Absolutely not. Are there secrets and style tips for men that they’re following? Yes, there most certainly are. Let’s call them principles, and in this case, these men pay strict attention to the principles and know how to put them to work.In an effort to ignore your wardrobe, you may tell yourself that you don’t care about the way you look – that your skills and personality are the criteria for which you should be judged, and that your image shouldn’t matter. And that’s understandable, because if success in this world were based on merit alone, itwouldn’tmatter. But it’s not, and it does.How you choose to present yourself affects your everyday life. Most likely more than you realize. It affects how you feel, how you interact with the world, and how the world interacts with you. The way you dress is an outward expression of who you are. It forms the basis of your impression on other people and your perception of yourself.When it comes to personal style, your biggest asset is your strategy. Either you randomly buy clothing, hoping to create some semblance of a “look”, or you learn a set of guiding principles and master your wardrobe once and for all.Well-dressed men understand that when they look like their most professional, put-together and capable selves, that the world relates to them accordingly and operates with them on a higher level. Clothing acts as the outward representation of their skills and personality, tying their positive attributes together into a comprehensive package. That’s why regardless of whether or not they have an interest in fashion, attention is always paid to maintaining their image.While it may sound overwhelming, adopting this behavior is easier than you may realize. It’s also well worth the effort. Like any learned skill, it requires an understanding of the basics, a vested interest in the outcome, and a commitment to continuous practice and exploration. It is methodical and calculated, which means that unlike an innate talent, it is something that can be developed through applied knowledge.Are you ready to take control of your image and reap the personal and professional benefits of being well-dressed? We’re here to help! As a full-service personal styling firm,we teach men from all walks of life how to look their best, and we’re here to do the same for you.Scroll down to learn the top 50 best style tips for men, guaranteed to help you build a winning strategy for your wardrobe.WANT TO LEARN MORE OVER A FREE CONSULTATION?BOOK NOW1. GET CLEAR ON YOUR MESSAGEThe first step in establishing your sense of style is to build your message. Think of this as your personal branding – an external package that shows the world exactly who you are on the inside and highlights your strongest qualities.Begin by asking yourself how you’d like to be perceived by the people you interact with. Choose words that paint a vivid mental picture of the way you want to represent yourself. Adjectives like powerful, charming, sophisticated and intelligent, provide a measurement to assess your image against, so it’s important to get as clear and concise as possible.When our Personal Stylists begin working with a new male client, selecting these adjectives isthe first step in our process. Before knowing what your clothing will look like, it’s imperative that you’re clear on your message.Keep in mind that you’re always driving your personal narrative, whether you’re conscious of it or not. What do you want your style to say?2. IDENTIFY YOUR INSPIRATIONMen will often say that they’re just not “inherently stylish”, that they lack the understanding of how to put outfits together or what the ‘rules’ of fashion are. We like to challenge their argument by asking if they can identify someone whose style they admire. A man they want to dress like, even if they have no idea how to assemble the look.And guess what? 9 times out of 10 they can list multiple references (all good ones), quashing their own assumption that they don’t have a sense of style.They may not understand thehow, which is often the reason they’ve told themselves that they lack an aptitude for fashion. Understanding how to do something is learnable, it’s teachable. But as with any goal, we must first put the framework in place before knowing how to execute it, and when it comes to style, that framework is based on a clear understanding of our preferences.Whether it’s celebrities, politicians, TV characters, or co-workers, make a list of men you view as consistently well-dressed. This will help you narrow in on your preferences as you begin to identify what they all have in common.If you feel yourself resisting this exercise, just lean into it and see where the discovery process takes you. As creatures of habit, it’s challenging to envision ourselves wearing something other than what we’re familiar with. For the time being, ignore the natural hesitation to step outside your comfort zone and instead focus only onwhoandwhatappeals to you.3. FOCUS ON AUTHENTICITYThere’s often a misconception with men that they should wear something because it’s in style, because women like it, or simply because it’s what everyone else is wearing. But the problem with this thinking is that when you wear something that isn’tyou, you feel like an imposter and it shows.The clothing you wear is an extension of who you are. It should strengthen your image and be an expression of your true self. So don’t force it. The goal is to build an elevated sense of style based around a wardrobe you feel good in, one that lifts your self-confidence and gets you excited to interact in the world.This is not to say you’re given a free pass to dress in sweats every day because they make you feel like your truest self. You can do better. Work on choosing pieces that fit with your message (step 1), align with your preferences (step 2), so that the way you present yourself is completely aligned with who you are.If you’re unsure how you feel in something, take our authenticity test by asking yourself 3 simple questions: Does the outfit feel comfortable or will I be constantly adjusting it? Do I recognize myself in the mirror or am I trying to be someone I’m not? Does this clothing bring me joy and am I excited to wear it? If you answer yes to all 3, you’re good to go. If not, look for another option.4. WIN THE FIRST IMPRESSIONPeople instinctively form strong first impressions of you. They do this very quickly and with minimal data – and they base it off the information you provide them with. While you can’t change their behavior, you can alter their perception to your advantage. Why would you want to do this? Because their impression sets the tone for the entire interaction, both in the present moment and throughout the course of your relationship.How you dress represents who you are and tells people what to expect from you. And when you dress like an average man, you tell everyone youareaverage, and they should only expect average things from you.But if you care about your image and are committed to putting in the work, then you are anything but average and should show the world exactly how outstanding you are.Far too often a lack of attention to wardrobe holds people back. This is frustrating, because clothing certainly doesn’t determine one’s actual competence or credibility; it does however, influence others’ perception of those qualities – and that reality impacts opportunities.Whether you’re re-entering the dating world, hoping to be considered for a promotion, or striving to land bigger clients, your image plays a role in the success of your outcomes. Luckily, the clothing you choose to wear and the way you wear it, is completely within your control. If you want to win the first impression, then take hold of your narrative and learn to dress in a way that shows the world you are far from average.5. USE CLOTHING TO BUILD CONFIDENCEA strong sense of confidence is what separates the men who operate within their comfort zone from those who go after bigger career opportunities, seek out new clients, ask for a raise, and take more chances in their dating life. It’s what drives them to make their voices heard and their presence felt, even when life tells them they’d be better off playing it safe.When it comes to building confidence, often the right wardrobe can work like a suit of armor to give the extra boost you need to not just look the part, but to feel it too, and carry yourself accordingly. Putting on nice clothing makes you feel powerful, and that changes the basic way you see the world and the role you play in it. When used correctly, it fosters the ability for you to feel empowered, comfortable in your own skin, and above all else confident.As you begin to develop your sense of style, learn to acknowledge that nice clothing is much more than justnice clothing.It’s your uniform for battle, worn to help you feel your best and perform at a higher level. It’s your external packaging, telling everyone how seriously you should be taken. Learn to relate to your wardrobe as an integral piece in establishing your self-confidence, without discounting its significance or writing off its necessity.6. UNDERSTAND AND ACCEPT YOUR BODY TYPEUnderstanding your body type is a key piece in successfully achieving a great sense of personal style. When it comes to selecting the right clothing, it’s important to be honest with yourself about the body you have and choose cuts that enhance and flatter your shape accordingly.Men have the tendency to wear clothing that is too big for them because it feels comfortable, or because they’re trying to disguise their physique and conceal certain insecurities. Unfortunately, this masking technique has the opposite effect.Excess fabric and unnecessary wrinkles and sagging not only make your outline look sloppy, but also shorter and heavier. None of which are desired outcomes.Accept and embrace your body as it is now, and don’t wait until you’re an ideal stature before committing to dressing better. Great style is attainable at any height, weight or shape.With the right clothing and the proper fit, you look like you’re in charge of your appearance. The function of your wardrobe is to present your body in the best light possible, not to hide it and hope it goes unnoticed. This is a futile objective and will only do you a disservice by making you appear sloppy and careless. Learn to accept your body and shop for it accordingly.7. ENHANCE A SKINNY STRUCTURESlender men often try to disguise their body by wearing larger clothing, thinking they’ll look larger themselves. Unfortunately, the opposite is true. By wearing clothing that is a size too big, you accentuate your smaller build by creating a saggy shape, where fabric hangs off your frame.Conversely, choosing cuts that cling to your body further emphasize your skinny stature and have the tendency to make your proportions look frail. The sweet spot is right in the middle, with moderation being key.Your go-to items should be ones that add weight while still being true to size. Suit jackets and blazers instantly create structure and are the slender man’s best friend, so be sure to have several in your rotation. Select styles where the shoulder seam sits right at your shoulder’s edge (too far over and you look like you’re wearing your father’s hand-me-down) and fit to the curvature of your torso. Layer sweaters over collared shirts and button downs over t-shirts to build out your frame. Choose bulky fabrics and heavy knits that add weight, while avoiding anything too thin or clingy.On the bottom, stay away from super skinny jeans and pants that are too tapered as they only further accentuate a slender stature. Instead opt for a slim or straight cut, which adds volume on your lower half and makes you appear sturdier.When you showcase your shape rather than try to conceal it, you own every inch of the space you occupy and show up in the world as the strong, powerful man that you are.8. STREAMLINE A LARGER FRAMEWhen larger men opt for shapeless, baggy clothing, the visual distortion gets amplified, and in fact draws more attention to your weight while relegating your overall appearance. Instead of trying to fool people into thinking you’re slimmer than you are by covering your body in excess fabric, learn to streamline the shape you have.Choose clothing that is fitted, and gives you a clean, clear and defined silhouette. Think of it as outlining your frame in a structured package, where your clothing works to contain everything that’s inside.Your wardrobe should be stocked with blazers, sportscoats, light weight jackets and layering sweaters. These will assist you in achieving a proportional shape while framing out your torso. Choose suit jackets with a double vent to better cover your backside, and wider lapels to balance out your chest. On the bottom opt for straight leg, non-tapered trousers and jeans to lengthen your frame and help you appear longer and leaner.Look for fabrics that are lightweight. They allow for better ventilation, without trapping heat inside, and also eliminate any issue of excess bulk.9. WEAR CLOTHING THAT FITSFit is the number one most important thing when it comes to dressing well. If there is a style tip for men that trumps all others, this is it.In addition to strategically enhancing your body type, your clothing also needs to fit your unique size, from your neck to your wrists to your inseam. It doesn’t matter if you’re in jeans and t-shirt or a three-piece suit. In order to maintain a polished sense of style your clothing must match your measurements.This is why every well-dressed man knows the importance of having a go-to tailor. Someone who knows his body and understands how to adjust his clothing accordingly. The likelihood of something fitting you straight off the rack is rare. Unless you’re perfectly proportioned, it’s to be expected that you’ll need to make adjustments, and absolutely imperative when you get into suiting (see tip #22).Men have a tendency to get overwhelmed after shopping and choose to leave clothing as is. Don’t settle for pant hems that bunch at your ankles or shirt sleeves that hang past your wrists. Not only are these alterations simple and affordable, but they instantly elevate your image and are well worth the added effort.If something doesn’t fit initially, then it will never look right, so don’t waste your money unless you’re going to take the time to tailor it. Well-fitting clothing will complement your body, whereas ill-fitting ones will draw attention to your problem areas and make you come across as sloppy and careless.When clothing fits, you not only look good, but feel good as well. Your posture improves and you carry yourself with more confidence, which affects the way you perceive yourself and the impact you have on others.10. LEARN THE IMPORTANCE OF DRESSING SHARP, NOT FLASHYA lot of men assume that to dress well, they need to stand out. And they naturally go about it in the wrong way. They think they need to recreate runway fashion, layer on accessories or out-do their peers, all in an effort to be deemed stylish. But what they fail realize is that when it comes to great style, less is often more. As well-dressed gentleman we want to stand out for being polished, not ostentatious. So it’s important to know the difference.The easiest way to think about dressing sharp is to focus on the classics. Classics are classics for a reason; they’re time-tested essentials that always look good. They hold firm over time, and unlike trends, they pair well with one another – meaning that putting them together in outfit combinations always guarantees success. When you focus on mastering the classics, you create an almost fail-proof formula for your personal style. Where trends can end up looking tacky, classics will always be timeless.Putting effort into dressing sharp means you undoubtedly emit an image of self-respect and self-worth. You stand out from the crowd and draw attention to yourself, not because your clothing is loud and flashy, but because you radiate a sense of excellence and maturity.11. BUILD A FOUNDATION OF BASICSThe key to a wardrobe that worksforyou, is to build a collection of items that interchange with one another. Otherwise known as a capsule wardrobe. To make this happen, you need a solid foundation of understated, classic staples that can be mixed and matched with as many other pieces as possible. These will not only act as the bedrock of your clothing collection, but will also serve as the supporting pieces to some of your more signature items.The more versatile clothing you invest in, the more outfit options you create within your wardrobe. You’d be amazed at how fast your choice can increase with just a few strategic additions. Whereas a trendier item may only create 1-2 outfit combinations, quality basics will generate upwards of 10. Think of this concept like compound interest, where every piece you add grows the wardrobe you already own exponentially.Below is a list of theessential items all men should have in their wardrobe. Owning these basics will guarantee a strong foundation for your style and will lend a supporting hand to more signature pieces.solid color t-shirtslong sleeve t-shirts or henley’swhite dress shirtcasual button downdark wash jeanschinosblazer or sport coatsuit (navy or charcoal)layering sweaterscasual jacket (utility, bomber, or leather)dress jacket (trench or topcoat)tennis shoesleather dress shoes (brown and black)boots (Chelsea or chukka)leather belt12. USE A VARIETY OF NEUTRALSJust like your capsule wardrobe of basics, an assortment of neutral colors is also essential for building out the foundation of your wardrobe. They automatically work with one another, so you don’t have to spend much time thinking about how to pair combinations or whether something is going to clash.When it comes to your wardrobe, neutral colors include: black, white, grey, navy brown and khaki or camel.Men often think that they have to wear bold colors in order to be well-dressed, and get overwhelmed when trying to keep track of what pairs together. But as you’ve already learned the point is to dress sharp, not flashy, so if the idea of color-matching makes you anxious, rest assured you can look equally as stylish in neutrals.This essential palette makes you look professional and put-together, so if and when you’re ready to introduce some color, they serve as the perfect backdrop.13. ...THEN ADD SOME COLORKnowing how to wear color is a challenge, even when you’re trying your best to get it right. Understanding what pairs together and how to compliment your skin tone, can be overwhelming. But it doesn’t mean you have to resign yourself to wearing exclusively black and white.Once you’ve built a foundation of neutrals, all of which work together, start by adding in one color per outfit at a time. Since nothing clashes with a neutral (that’s what makes itneutralafter all), you can match in anything else you like without worrying about the pairing. One color is enough to add more interest and personality to your look, while still being completely safe from clashes.When you have on your navy dress pants and a grey button down, try adding in a burgundy tie. And with a more casual look like khaki pants and black t-shirt, layer on a military green sweater or jacket to give your outfit a pop.If you want to incorporate pattern, keep it subtle and classic. It’s not to say that your outfit has to be boring, but please leave the garish prints and crazy patterns to someone else. If you’re trying to show off your whimsical and carefree personality through your clothing, start by incorporating smaller accents like a colorful pocket square or printed dress socks. Otherwise, stick with the foolproof neutrals and pops of colors, and let your humor speak for itself—not through your wardrobe.14. ASSESS WHAT YOU OWN AND LET GO OF WHAT DOESN'T ALIGNGetting clear on the image you’re creating for yourself will help you assess what’s in your closet with honesty and objectivity. Chances are you’ve been wearing the same thing for years, not because you chose it strategically but because it was familiar. It’s time to be more methodical about what you’re wearing.Review your current wardrobe piece by piece, to determine if each item fits with the style you plan to achieve. Commit to letting go of anything that doesn’t align. Holding on to clothing out of sentimental attachment will only guarantee you repeat old patterns. What’s more, a closet overflowing with clothes is very impractical. It takes you too long to find something to wear because the good stuff is hidden under piles of things you aren’t using. Keep the items that match your goals and part with the rest.Check with family and friends to see if they may be in need of a clothing refreshment. What no longer works for you could very well be a fit for someone else. Generating some extra income is also a good idea. Sites likePoshmark,The RealRealandthredUPare all great options for reselling your unwanted items.If you want to learn how to organize your closet effectively, try oursimple 7 step process,which will help you easily maintain a more effective, comprehensive wardrobe.15. ESTABLISH YOUR GO TO BRANDSAs you invest more time and money into building your wardrobe, you’ll begin to learn which brands you can rely on for fit, quality and aesthetic. Put a list together of the ones that match your needs so you can automate the styling process. Shopping becomes a whole lot easier when you already know which stores have items that work for you, and the brands you’ve had success with in the past.If Paige jeans tend to fit you perfectly, you can save yourself a lot of time (and energy) by knowing where to look first. When J Crew consistently comes out with collections that match your personal style, it’s a pretty safe bet that you can find something you like there without having to scour the entire mall.Knowing your go-to brands is an easy way to build the foundation for your personal style while developing your collection of basics.16. PUT SYSTEMS IN PLACE TO MAKE SHOPPING LESS DAUNTINGIt’s no secret that most men hate shopping.Hatemay actually be an understatement. And while we don’t have a secret strategy that will transform this chore into your new favorite hobby, there are a few steps you can take to make the experience less overwhelming.To start with, you need a game plan. Get clear on what you’re shopping for and where you’re likely to find it. Make a mental shopping list and remind yourself of your go-to brands before you head out. This way you have an itinerary when you get to the mall.Next, commit to comparison shopping. A lot of men buy the first option they try, simply because they want to ‘get in and get out’. While this may save you some time, it doesn’t guarantee you’re finding clothing that’s worthy of your investment. Compare at least 3-5 different styles based on the criteria of price, quality and fit so you can be sure you’re choosing the best available option.If you struggle to make decisions or feel pressured by sales associates, bring a friend along for second opinions and emotional support. They will not only provide honest feedback, seeing things that can be in your blind spot, but may also help you branch out and try things you’d never otherwise think of.And if the experience of shopping in a mall is just too overwhelming for you,work with a Personal Stylistwho will shop on your behalf and bring a personally curated selection of clothing directly to your home for you to try at leisure.17. INVEST IN QUALITY TO MAXIMIZE YOUR ROIIt’s integral that you relate to your wardrobe as an investment into yourself, and shift your mindset when it comes to spending money on clothing. Afterall, it is one of the most fundamental tools at your disposal, used to form a positive impression on your colleagues, clients, prospective romantic partners, and most importantly, on yourself. It’s important that you invest in it wisely.When it comes to knowing how much to spend on clothing, the key is to buy the best quality you can afford for your budget. To generate a strong ROI, spend more money on less pieces, investing in good quality that will last for years to come.The $300.00 Zara suit, that at first glance looks similar to the $900.00 Hugo Boss version, may seem like a great choice as your new work-suit in the short term. But when the fused lapels start coming apart after two trips to the drycleaner, you’ll be kicking yourself for not investing in the one that would get you through the decade.When you’re dressed in quality garments it shows. Not only can other people see it, but more importantly you feel it, and your confidence lifts. Afterall, it’s something to be proud of when you can invest money into your personal success, and that appreciation impacts the way you carry yourself.The only time quality isn’t as integral is if you’re experimenting with trendier items or things you don’t plan to wear in the long term. Since these pieces tend to be more fleeting, you can get away with fast-fashion brands and lower tiered craftsmanship.18. STAY AWAY FROM LOGOS AND BRANDINGHave you ever noticed most of the best dressed men are consideredbest dressedbecause of the way they seem to effortlessly put outfits together, looking like they’re hardly trying? Their style-status has everything to do with fine-tuning a look that’s uniquely them – one that doesn’t include logos or branding.You aren’t stylish simply because you wear expensive clothing. Quite the opposite in fact. A Gucci belt or Balmain tee, though very popular on Instagram, only demonstrates your ability to follow fads and play into marketing campaigns, not your aptitude for polished menswear. Branded clothing gives the impression that you couldn’t be bothered to elevate your image, hoping instead that the designer-status will do the job for you.Having a strong sense of style is about knowing your message, choosing clothes that feel authenticallyyou, understanding what works for your body type and above all else, feeling confident in what you wear. A great outfit has very little to do with price. You can make a less expensive ensemble into something spectacular when you understand the principals of personal style.19. ONLY BUY CLOTHING YOU ABSOLUTELY LOVEMen are notorious for seeing something in a store that fits the general criteria of what they need, and buying it without so much as a second glance over. Typically to get back home to something more enjoyable. While this may feel like a pain-free shopping experience, it ultimately results in is a closet filled with clothing you never wear.Instead, take the time to try things on in the store and pay attention to your immediate reaction. Does it generate feelings of confidence? Can you visualize yourself wearing it a variety of settings? If you don’t get those feelings as soon as you put it on for the first time, they’re not going to come later when you have to remind yourself why you bought it.The point of building a great wardrobe is to invest in pieces that make you feel like your best self. If that experience doesn’t happen in the store, don’t buy it. There’s always something better to be found somewhere else.20. WHEN IN DOUBT, DRESS UPThere’s nothing wrong with being the best dressed guy in the room. Any attention it brings your way is going to be the right attention. It says you’re serious and should be treated accordingly.If you aren’t sure of the dress code, especially in a new work setting, it’s always better to look more elevated than everyone else than to be the most casual. When you’re overdressed, you present yourself as a professional. When you’re underdressed however, your run the risk of your potential client or boss thinking you don’t take your job seriously enough.If the dress code in your office is relaxed, don’t use it as an opportunity to look anything less than polished. Business casual is not dressing up a casual outfit; business casual meansdressing down a business outfit. In other words, dressing down from a suit. The idea behind business casual is to project a professional image while enjoying more casual attire.Even if the rest of your office is dressed like it’s the weekend, hold yourself to a higher standard. Be the man that looks professional, even if you’re the only one, and you’ll stand out in the right way.People look up to well-dressed individuals and instinctively give them more respect and attention. If you’re unsure, you’re always safer erring on the side of dressy. Not only will you feel better, but the people around you will notice.21. PERFECT YOUR DATE NIGHT LOOKIf you’re recently single, a lot of your questions may center around style tips for men re-entering the dating world. Even as a seasoned dater, you may still be unsure of the best outfit choices to make on your evenings out.You want to present yourself in the most appealing way possible in order to win the first impression and demonstrate your seriousness. Not only will your date appreciate the effort you put in, but you’ll also feel much more confident yourself.Dressing for the occasion matters, so plan your outfit based on where you’re going. Your date will most certainly be taking into account the location and what kind of atmosphere it will be, so they’ll expect you too as well. Being on the same page clothing-wise is an important part of the first date experience.Dressing too formal will look contrived and out of place, too relaxed and you appear as if you don’t care. But even a casual evening doesn’t mean that no effort is required. You want to hit the sweet spot of blending in while also impressing, by appearing comfortable, calm and relaxed. In order to achieve this, you need to wear something that isyou.If you force an outfit you just end up feeling like a kid on the first day of school.The best way guarantee a winning look is to mix formal with casual. It shows you’re serious but not stuffy or out of touch. Stay away from a suit and tie unless the location is incredibly swanky and opt instead for a sweater and trousers, or a blazer and slim dark denim. Solid, sophisticated colors, good-quality fabrics, and clothes that fit you well are your friend here. They’ll give you an air of mystery and complement anything your date decides to wear.22. MASTER THE 8 CRITERIA OF A PROPERLY FITTING SUITThe perfect suit can be a tricky item to fit. Too big and you look like a teenager. Too small and you’ll feel like you’re in a straitjacket. An off-the-rack suit will always need adjustments from a tailor, but a few simple tests will tell you if it fits in the first place.#1 Shoulders:The number one most important fit of a suit is in the shoulders. Make sure the seam sits squarely on your natural shoulder and isn’t hiked up or dangling down. Shoulders are one of the hardest parts to adjust after construction, so always start with one that lies directly on your bone to begin with.#2 Chest & Torso:Your flat hand should slip easily into your suit under your lapel when the top button is done up. If the lapels pop out, the jacket is too tight and you need to size up. If the fabric gapes away from your chest, try a size down. Follow up this test by wrapping your arms around your torso like you’re giving yourself a hug. If it feels like the seams are about to burst, this a sure sign that the jacket is too small.#3 Buttons:The top button of a two-button suit, or the middle button of a three-button suit, should not fall below your naval.#4 Sleeves:Jacket sleeves should end at your natural wrist, otherwise known in tailoring as the “rule of wrist”,with about a half inch of shirt exposed. The sleeves should be slim enough that they follow the width of your arms, but not so tight that they show the wrinkles of your dress shirt underneath.#5 Length:With your arms straight down at your sides, your knuckles should be even with the bottom of the jacket. This is an important one to pay attention to, as too long or too short will throw off the overall proportions of the suit.#6 Waist:Dress pants sit at your waist, not your hips (jeans and chinos can sit at your hips). They should stay put without the need of a belt. If they don’t, they’re too big. A belt should be used to pull your look together as finishing touch, not a means of keeping your pants on.#7 Legs:Pant fabric should graze your thigh and taper slightly as it falls from your knee to your ankle, while gently hugging your backside. If you can grab a significant amount of fabric in the leg of your pants, they’re too wide.#8 Break:A trouser “break” refers to the fold in the fabric that occurs at the bottom of the pant leg as it rests on the shoe. This foldbreaksthe clean line of the trouserdrape, hence the name. Off-the-rack suits are sold with a raw hem so that a tailor can customize the length of the pant to match your height. A proper break should fall just above your shoe or grazing the top of them. Any longer and the fabric will bunch, creating a sloppy silhouette.23. DON'T OVERLOOK YOUR DRESS SHIRTSA good quality men’s dress shirt isn’t sized S, M, L. The style of shirt you want to invest in has a numerical designation for both the neck and sleeve length in order to provide a more precise fit. And even when you find your correct size, you may require some additional tailoring to streamline the sleeves and torso, depending on your proportions.Taking care of this when the shirt brand new is imperative. After all, you’ve committed to dressing sharp – an ill-fitted shirt will only make you look sloppy and careless. Though these adjustments may feel minor, they dramatically increase the overall appeal of the garment on your body and ensure less bulk underneath your suit jacket.When shopping for dress shirts you also want to take note of the fabric. This is especially imperative for whites. A good quality shirt will be made of a more robust yarn, ensuring it isn’t see-through. With the amount of wear they’re going to receive, always invest in higher-end dress shirts (especially white ones) that aren’t as thin as a tissue. If you can see your undershirt through the fabric of the dress shirt, it’s too thin.24. KEEP YOUR COLLAR IN CHECKOn the topic of dress shirts, your collar should never wrinkle or become anything less than sharply pressed. A crisp collar indicates your attention to detail and says you’re committed to your presentation. A sloppy one on the other hand, brings into question the seriousness of your work.If you’re new to dress shirts, you may not be aware that there are slots in the underside of the collar into which “collar stays” are placed. These are designed to keep the collar structured, while properly framing your face as well as the knot of your necktie. An inexpensive package of plastic ones will get the job done and can be purchased onAmazonfor less than $10. And if you’re able to invest more into your wardrobe, upgrade to a metal version, which have more heft and don’t have to be replaced as frequently.Your attention to detail represents much more than an affinity for fashion, it subconsciously lets other people know how serious they should take you. Don’t overlook details that may feel trivial like collars. They are one piece that adds up to the total sum of your powerful presentation.25. INVEST IN CHARCOAL AND NAVY BEFORE BLACKIf you’re building a capsule wardrobe and investing in good quality suiting for the first time, it’s always best to start with charcoal and navy. They are evergreen, incredibly versatile, and will always present you in a professional light. And now that you know the 8 criteria for selecting a proper fit, you can narrow down your choices further by deciding between these two colors.Black might seem like the default option, (after all black goes with everything, right?) but it should actually be reserved for weddings, funerals and anything else more formal. A black suit in an everyday workplace makes you look out of touch and less than stylish.If you already own charcoal and navy, and want to add more diversity to your wardrobe, try different shades of blue and grey. You can also infuse more personality into your suiting by selecting interesting fabrics and patterns, like herringbone and Prince of Wales.26. GIVE ATTENTION TO BUTTONING VS UNBUTTONINGThe rules of buttoning your suit jacket are such: when you’re standing – button, when you’re sitting – unbutton. On a two-button suit, fasten the top button and leave the bottom one undone. On a three-button suit, fasten the top two buttons and leave the bottom one undone.Why are there such definitive rules you may ask? Well for starters, modern suits are cut in such a way that the fabric doesn’t drape properly when the bottom button is fastened. They’re also designed to showcase the curvature of the masculine frame when closed. Leaving it open while standing defeats its entire purpose.Jackets are unbuttoned when seated, not only because this is much more comfortable, but also to prevent wrinkling and buttons from popping off.And lastly, knowing the rules signals your ability to understand the importance of details. It shows that you are a regular “suit-wearer” and belong to the club of men who ascribe to the rules of proper dress code.27. MATCH SOCKS TO YOUR PANTS, NOT SHOESTo finish off your suiting, it’s best to keep things simple when it comes to your socks. A good rule of thumb is to match them to your pants, which creates a visually seamless extension of your leg, making you appear taller. When you match to your socks to your shoes, they blend right in and create a bootie effect. Not the look you’re going for.Matching doesn’t mean identical colors, though; they just need to fall in the same hue. If your dress pants are navy, you could opt for a dark green sock but would want to stay away from a light yellow. See the difference? Feel free to add in some print or pattern, but keep it within reason. When your focus is on dressing sharp rather than flashy, socks screaming for attention is not a look that fits the bill.Lastly, it’s important to make sure your socks are long enough to cover your legs. When you sit down with your legs crossed, no skin should be showing between your sock and your pant hem.28. WEAR AN UNDERSHIRT (PROPERLY)You’ve spent money to invest in good quality dress shirts, so you’ll want to do what you can to preserve their longevity. In addition to proper care and maintenance, you can keep your shirts free of sweat stains by pairing them with an undershirt.It’s important that you invest in a true undershirt, a garment designedonlyto be worn under other shirts. It should fit close to your body and have some spandex in the fabric to provide ease of movement while wicking away sweat. A proper undershirt should also be long enough to stay tucked in so that it isn’t bunching or rolling.The neckline of your undershirt should never be visible beneath your dress shirt, since its purpose is to remain unseen. Crewnecks are ideal when you’re wearing your shirt buttoned up with a tie. When sporting a more relaxed look (open button and sans-tie), opt for a V-neck.29. KNOW WHEN TO TUCK VS UNTUCKTuck it in or let it hang? A very common question. The wrong choice can take your outfit from casually-cool to sloppy in a split second.One fool proof way to answer the tuck question is by looking at your shirt hem. Straight hems (those hems that are flat with an even length all the way around) are made to be worn untucked. Think polos, tees and sweaters.Button-down shirts always call into question more room for interpretation. As a steadfast rule, if the shirt has visible “tails” — that is to say, the hem extends dramatically in length at the back, rather than being even all the way around — it should always be tucked in. Wearing a shirt with tails untucked is a sloppy, juvenile look that will not assert the powerful image you’ve set out to achieve.Some button-down shirts are designed to be left untucked (check out super popular, and Stylist-approved brandUNTUCKit) and will have a scoop hem with an even length in the front and back, that will not fall any longer than the middle of your pant pockets. This type of shirt is perfect when you want to elevate a casual look slightly, taking things up a notch from your go-to t-shirt and jeans.As with everything, fit is key when pulling off a tucked in shirt. The last thing you want is fabric ballooning out of the top of your pants because you chose a style too big for you. To avoid this mishap, be sure to select button-downs that gently graze your torso and frame the curvature of your body so that they always lay flat when tucked in.30. GIVE UP THE GRAPHIC TEESIt’s not uncommon for men to approach their casual style from the wrong angle. They assume that the refined qualities they bring to their more formal attire don’t carry over into casual wear; that they are separate entities with different styling rules. But if you want to be well-dressed, you should always aim to look polished, regardless of the type of clothes you’re wearing.T-shirts by nature are casual, and adding a graphic to them multiplies the casualness. While there isn’t a steadfast rule that says you have to give them up entirely, including them in your refined capsule wardrobe is going to require you to be selective about the ones you choose to keep. There’s nothing that can sabotage all the work you’ve done to elevate your dress code quite as quickly as a branded logo or quirky cartoon screen printed onto your t-shirt.Instead of styles that are reminiscent of your college days, opt for a more mature take on the traditional graphic tee. Think stripes, subtle prints, raw edges, and rich colors rather than silly photos or illustrations.31. LEARN TO LAYERLayering makes a simple outfit more interesting by adding an element of personality to your ensemble. Plus, it’s one of the easiest styling tricks available and not something you should feel intimidated by.A sweater with jeans is a perfectly acceptable combination, but add a white shirt underneath that sweater and you’ve transformed a simple look into a more exciting one. Or why not go further: a button-down shirt, under a V-neck sweater, under a blazer is just one multi-layered combination that is visually engaging. It’s also a practical move that will keep you warmer in the colder months.Getting comfortable with layering is a very easy style tip for men who want to add interest to their ensemble without having to think too hard about a combination.32. DON'T CONFUSE SPORT SHIRTS WITH DRESS SHIRTSWhile both button down the front, a men’s dress shirt is not the same as a sports shirt although the differences are sometimes subtle.Dress shirts are typically designed to be simpler with more rigid collars and cuffs. They are suitable for formal occasions and are the only type of button-down shirt that pairs with a suit. Sport shirts, on the other hand, may have bolder prints, relaxed collars and cuffs, as well as a wider assortment of fabrics like chambray and linen.Sports shirts are typically 2.5 inches shorter than a dress shirt and often feature more casual elements like an oxford collar. They can be worn tucked or untucked, but should not be styled with suiting since they are far too casual.As you build out your capsule wardrobe, be sure to include a variety of sports shirts, which can easily elevate your look at a moment’s notice when paired with a nice pair of slim fit dark jeans. They are the mid-way point between a blazer and a t-shirt, perfect for social occasions like date night or dinner with friends.33. ALWAYS HAVE DARK DENIM ON HANDWhile lighter washes are encouraged, dark (and even black) denim is a must when building your capsule wardrobe. It’s universally flattering and works with a variety of shirts and jackets – plus, the darker wash will lengthen your legs, making you appear taller.Just like a classic white dress shirt, dark denim can easily take you from day to night and provide endless outfit combinations. As opposed to a lighter rinse, they look inherently polished and are much more versatile. Dark denim is also an easy way to refine your off-duty style, keeping you looking sharp even when you’re dressed down.In order to nail the elevated denim look, opt for styles that are classic without rips or distressing.34. ADD ALTERNATIVES TO JEANSA good pair of jeans plays a key role in every man’s wardrobe. Dressed up or dressed down, they are the ubiquitous staple of the American man. They go with just about everything, and can basically be the only pair of pants you wear outside of the office. But they shouldn’t be.To diversify your off-duty wardrobe, learn to add some new styles into your rotation like chinos, joggers, and linen or wool-blend trousers.If you feel like you’re unsure of how to style them, start with your neutral color palette. Tan or grey chinos can be worn in the exact same way you’d wear your jeans, but give you a nice alternative and provide more variety in your wardrobe. Army green joggers are still subdude enough while being different than other things you own. And a charcoal trouser can be worn in lieu of your dark wash denim on date night, to add more character and further elevate your style.35. CHOOSE SLIM FITS OVER OTHER CUTS“Can men over the age of 30 wear slim fit pants?” Our Personal Stylists get asked this a lot. The answer is a resounding, yes they most certainly can….andshould.To be clear, slim does not equal skinny or tight. Think of slim as a more modern take on your staple straight leg styles. When fit properly, they should skim your thighs and calves, not hug or engulf them, and should graze your backside while being able to stay put without a belt. You should be able to move in them comfortably without any restriction.A slim fit style flatters every build and helps you look taller and thinner. You may be inclined to reach for the looser fits if you’re a larger man, but these only add more weight to your silhouette. Recall what we previously learned about fit and choosing clothing that’s too large for you. Opt instead for the slim-straight option, a hybrid between the best of both worlds.36. SAY NO TO CARGOWhile cargo shorts and pants may have a practical element – pockets to carry absolutely everything you own – their look is more function than fashion, and doesn’t align with an elevated dress code. It’s time to let go of them once and for all.Now that you’re a student of proper fit, you’ll understand that the weight of the cargo pockets throws off the entire balance of your silhouette, making you look bulkier and more cumbersome on the bottom half. What’s more, there’s absolutely no reason you should be carrying enough to require such extensive pocket-space, so the cargo-elements don’t actually serve a purpose.Luckily the solution can be found in a chino pant or short. These pocket-less alternatives are slimmer with cleaner lines, making you look longer and leaner, without the added weight on your thighs. Their more simplistic design is just as comfortable as a cargo but exponentially more flattering and in line with your sharp sense of style.37. INCORPORATE BLAZERSYou don’t have to wear a suit to dress well, but that doesn’t mean you can’t polish your casual look with a blazer. This wardrobe essential isn’t strictly reserved for the office, and can easily be worn with your off-duty outfits.Add navy, grey or black options to your closet to wear over button-downs, polos, sweaters and t-shirts. Even something as simple as a black tee and jeans looks a whole lot smarter with the addition of a blazer.Fit is key when selecting the right style, so keep your criteria from tip #22 in mind when comparing options. A well-fitting blazer accentuates the male frame like no other garment and shows you’re committed to your presentation without trying too hard.For clarifying purposes, keep in mind that suit jackets are not blazers, they are part of the set that you own the matching pants to. Suit jackets should only be worn with their coordinating pants so that they both get equal wear, guaranteeing they stay the same color.38. INCLUDE A RANGE OF JACKETSJackets are the key players in your closet. When used properly, they showcase your personality and instantly make you look the style-savant you’re on your path to becoming. They’re what you use to bring uniqueness to your personal dress code, and turn an otherwise ordinary outfit into a memorable moment.Since they’re more of a statement item, look for designs in a neutral color and timeless silhouette to ensure versatility. A bright red jacket is hard to integrate into multiple outfits, but something in black, grey or even green offers the ability to create endless combinations without getting played out.Depending on your style, you’ll want to invest in at least one or two of the following:Bomber jacketUtility jacketField jacketDenim jacketLeather or suede moto jacketDown-filled vest or jacket39. UPGRADE YOUR WINTER COATTechnical down parkas have truly marked their territory in menswear. Once a staple of mountaineering types, the puffer jacket is now a bona fide winter wardrobe necessity. But while they may provide the insulation to perform in extreme weather, they don’t always command the sharp image you’ve set out to achieve. Nothing creates more of a wardrobe-disconnect than a nice suit paired with a Canada Goose jacket.When wearing business attire or anything more formal, it’s important to have an overcoat that finishes off your look. Something that creates a cohesive theme and aligns with the rest of your ensemble. Opt for longer pea coats or top coats, which fall between your thighs and knees, ensuring the length of your suit jacket is completely covered. Choose neutral colors like camel or navy that pair with the rest of your wardrobe and look inherently elevated.When you wear a casual coat with an otherwise formal outfit, you give the impression that you don’t understand the purpose of your clothing.40. BUILD AN ALL STAR SHOE LINE UPFootwear is a category you should allocate more of your wardrobe budget to. For starters, your size isn’t going to change over time, so assuming you choose classic styles, you’ll be wearing them for the foreseeable future. What’s more, opting for good quality means replacing them less frequently, making them well worth the investment. The question then is, what builds out a solid foundation of a men’s shoe wardrobe?For starters, it needs to be said that your worn in sneakers may very well ‘work’ with all your outfit combinations, but there’s no easier way to instantly elevate your ensemble than by swapping them out for something more polished. A simple brown leather shoe can be just as casually-conducive but looks exponentially more refined and stylish.For business and formal occasions, a pair of nice black oxfords is essential. Go with brown or tan when you want to look more casual, or consider a loafer or monk strap-style if you’re trying to diversify your collection.A pair of good quality dress shoes will give themselves away the moment you enter a room. They have a leather sole, as opposed to rubber, so their sound carries when you walk. They’re also made of better materials with nicer finishes, making them impossible to miss, even to the untrained eye.By all means wear sneakers, they’re not only practical but can be equally as fashion-oriented when worn properly. To keep them in line with your polished sense of style, be sure to choose options that are simple and refined. You can never go wrong with an all-white sneaker, the classicStan Smithis a tried-and-true favorite. The trick is to focus on styles that look more like a tennis shoe than something you’d wear to the gym.41. ...AND INCLUDE BOOTS IN THE ROTATIONBoots provide a nice footwear alternative when you need a break from your other shoes. They instantly add edge to your off-duty ensembles and have a way of transforming an otherwise casual look into something more exciting.They aren’t necessarily in the wheelhouse of every man, so if there’s one staple style to start with, it’s the Chelsea. The modern yet timeless design, with its sleek silhouette, allows them to easily be paired with a wider variety of pants.Chukka or dessert boots are another classic option, perfect for casual outfits but also easily dressed up to smarten an ensemble. If you already own a pair of leather Chelsea boots, opt for suede chukkas to round out your footwear collection.Styling both types of boots is quite simple. In dressed down settings, wear them just as you would your sneakers. And when elevating a look, pair them with dark denim and collared shirts or blazers.42. DON'T RESTRICT YOURSELF TO EXCLUSIVELY BLACKJust like suiting, black is often the presumptive frontrunner for men’s business footwear, but it shouldn’t be. While black is a solid choice since it’s almost impossible to go wrong with, you can exponentially raise the interest of your outfit by swapping them for brown or tan.Instead of playing it safe, and possibly a bit boring, pair your suiting with something in the brown hue. This style tip is for men who want to keep their look polished while achieving a more stylish, youthful and eye-catching presentation.43. COORDINATE YOUR BELT AND SHOESObserve the basic rules of convention when selecting your belt and shoes. They should coordinate with one another, if not by color than by style. A casual belt pairs with sneakers and other more relaxed footwear, while a leather belt should be worn with dress shoes and boots.Colors don’t to have to match exactly, but should coordinate without being too granular. If your shoes are brown, don’t wear a black belt, and instead select something in the brown-family. A hue slightly lighter or darker is perfectly acceptable and keeps your look more effortless. You have leeway to play around with so don’t fuss over an exact pairing.44. TAKE CARE OF YOUR FOOTWEARYou’ve invested money in a range of good quality shoes. Just as you would with a classic car, you need to maintain them to ensure they last.Visit your local shoemaker for regular shining and upkeep. You can also easily have the soles replaced once they wear over time, without having to invest in a brand new pair.For in-between visits, be sure to own an at-home repair kit to keep your shoes looking polished. This is especially important for sneakers, either all white styles or with white soles, which should be cleaned almost every time you wear them since they scuff quite easily. Essential kit items include leather and suede spray, cleaning shampoo and brushes.Jason Markkmakes some of the best at-home shoe care solutions on the market.To maximize longevity, always store your leather or suede shoes with shoe trees inside of them. Typically made from cedar wood, shoe trees are the single most important thing you can use to increase your shoe’s lifespan. Why? Moisture from your feet seeps into the leather of your footwear. If left to dry, however, the leather curls, gets deep creases, and can crack over time. This damage is irreparable and cobblers are powerless against it. Shoe trees have wicking properties, which remove moisture from their surroundings before damage can occur, maximizing the lifespan of your investment.45. ACCESSORIZE APPROPRIATELYAdding accessories means including small details that bring your sharp look to life. They are the finishing touches that can give you character and make your look authenticallyyou. Because men have less room than women to play around with fashion, simply because they have fewer options, accessories are a great way to incorporate unique elements of your personal style into your wardrobe.While add-ons effectively add substance to your outfit, done incorrectly and you can end up looking like a walking red flag. The trick to accessorizing is to master the art of less is more and focus on perfecting subtle embellishments. Afterall, we want people to pay more attention to our personality than our necklaces and rings. Stick to the classics – watch, belt, scarf, hat, sunglasses, pocket square, tie and tie bar. In order to not overdue, keep it at a 2-3 minimum so that your look doesn’t become louder than your voice.46. PERFECT THE TIENothing looks more quintessentially masculine than a suit and tie. But fashion the tie incorrectly and you immediately take that look from dapper to disheveled.If you don’t yet know how to tie a proper knot (preferably in several different ways), head over toYouTube for a tutorial. The tip of your tie should rest between the top and bottom of your belt buckle (or the area a belt would be if you’re going belt-less), and your knot should fit snuggly against your collar without any gaps.This rule has very little wiggle room. Avoid looking childish by taking the time to re-tie your tie if you didn’t get it right on your first attempt. After you’ve knotted up on several occasions, you should be able to achieve the perfect tie on nearly every attempt.47. COMPLIMENT RATHER THAN MATCHWhen it comes to tie and pocket square combinations, men often over think their color choice, unsure of how to select two additional items to style with their suit and dress shirt pairing.As a rule of thumb, don’t opt for a combination that is an exact match or came from a pre-packaged set. Wearing a tie and pocket square cut from the exact same fabric will make your outfit look contrived and overdone. Instead choose combinations that compliment one another, demonstrating your effortless sense of style and refined attention to detail.If you’re not sure where to start, go for any one of these timeless combinations:Burgundy and navyNavy and charcoalRoyal blue and yellowCharcoal and pale bluePale blue and LilacNavy and brownIn this department, also note that it’s not essential to wear a statement in both categories. If your tie is busy you can opt for solid pocket square, or go without one entirely.Relate to ties and pocket squares as investments pieces since they aren’t something to outgrow over time. Prioritize quality fabrics and timeless prints in interchangeable colors that can be worn for years to come.48. MASTER THE ART OF PRESENTATIONSince you’ve read this far, you know by now that the way you present yourself affects your everyday life. It creates your personal narrative and impacts the way you feel about yourself, how you interact with the world, and mostly how the world interacts with you.If you’ve put the work into developing your image and investing in nice clothing, then it’s imperative you pay attention to maintaining the finishing details. Nothing gives the impression that you don’t understand the importance of your wardrobe like wrinkled, soiled or sloppy garments. It says you aren’t taking yourself seriously, and gives other people the opportunity to overlook you as well. You’ve learned that the impression you form is completely within your control, so why not do everything in your power to make it as favorable and lasting as possible?Send clothing out to be pressed, learn how to use an iron, or if all else fails invest in a handheld steamer. Develop a dry-cleaning schedule so that clothing is regularly laundered, and visit your tailor for loose buttons, mendable holes, or frayed hems.In addition to maintaining your wardrobe, it’s also important to develop a self-care routine that keeps your presentation at a premium. Tend to of your skin, manage finger nails and facial hair, stick to regular haircuts, and above all else ensure you are fresh and clean.It’s important to take pride in caring for your wardrobe and body because it means you take pride in caring for yourself.49. REALIZE THAT DRESSING WELL IS A SKILL DEVELOPED THROUGH PRACTICENow that you have a strong foundation for your style, it’s time to put your wardrobe to work for you. A lot of men hear the phrase “well-dressed” and automatically feel anxious or uncertain. But you’re a student of style now, and have spent time and money investing in yourself, which means you’re ready to take on the challenge.Just like cooking or playing golf, dressing well is a skill that can actually be learned. No man is born with an inherent aptitude for fashion, but rather develops and perfects his craft, so that over time it’s something he masters.Give yourself permission to experiment and practice, knowing you may not get it right the first time around. As you get more interested in style, you’ll develop your signature look, your uniform so to speak, through lots of trial and error. Have fun with the process, learn to make it your own and above all else, commit to feeling like the very best version of yourself.50. DON'T BE AFRAID TO ASK FOR HELPLastly, if you’ve done the work to educate yourself and still feel stuck, overwhelmed or just uninterested in learning how – ask for help. You’re much better off seeking outside counsel than pretending you know what you’re doing while still continuing to dress at a less than elevated level.Help with style comes in a variety of forms, depending on the type of service you’re looking for. Subscription boxes and specialized sales associates can choose clothing on your behalf so that your wardrobe always stays fresh whenever you need something new.Personal Stylists who focus specifically on menswear can work with you to build your image from the ground up,while handling your shoppingso that you never have to step foot into a mall again. Get clear on how much work you’re willing (or unwilling) to do yourself so you can identify they type of assistance most suitable for you.It’s not uncommon to shy away from asking for help. Especially as men where there is a tendency to assume you should know how to do everything yourself. But it’s a much more efficient use of your time to identify your strengths and recognize what you don’t have the interest in learning. Your personal style and the way you carry yourself are both major contributing factors in your overall success. You are doing yourself a disservice if you assume you could simply overlook them. Ask for help and master your personal style once and for all.NEED HELP DEVELOPING A GREAT SENSE OF STYLE THAT’S EASY TO MAINTAIN?Let us show you how easy it can be to look and feel your best.vCREATE YOUR MESSAGEWork with your Personal Stylist to assess your goals and determine exactly what it is you want your image to say. Getting clear on your message, and how you want to be perceived, is what sets the foundation for your style. Together we’ll uncover exactly who you want to show up in the world as and how that translates through your use of clothing.BUILD YOUR WARDROBEOnce you understand what you want your image to convey, we’ll help you build a wardrobe that communicates your narrative. By using the clothing you already own and shopping for additional pieces, we’ll show you how simple it can be to achieve your desired look. You’ll learn how to buy clothing with intention, rather than at random, to create a cohesive sense of style.FEEL YOUR BESTThe most important part of a strong image is one that feels authentically true to who you are. Style should be something that mirrors your inner self, and should never feel forced or contrived. A connected relationship with your Personal Stylist means that you can always expect wardrobe guidance and assistance that results in you feeling confident and empowered.Want to learn more about our virtual personal styling packages?BOOK YOUR FREE CONSULTATIONSERVICE PACKAGESPRICINGBOOK A CONSULTATIONSTYLE STOREFREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONSPRESSJOIN OUR FACEBOOK GROUPTERMS OF SERVICETESTIMONIALSBOOK A CONSULTATIONPRICINGSERVICE PACKAGESTERMS OF SERVICEJOIN OUR FACEBOOK GROUPTESTIMONIALSFollowFollowFollowservice@mikadopersonalstyling.com