URL: https://effortlessgent.com/mens-winter-fashion/
Source: blog_effortlessgent.com
Title: How To Dress Your Best in Fall And Winter (Men’s Winter Fashion & Style Guide)
Scraped: 2025-11-07T04:09:30.570027
Length: 39448 chars
================================================================================

In this article, we’re covering everything you need to know about men’s winter fashion in the 2020s (and beyond!), specifically for the effortless gent (i.e., you). These are the essentials—NOT trends—you need to know about dressing well and having smart, sharp style in cold weather.Fellas, cold weather season is here! I want to help you dress sharp this fall and winter, so I put together this style guide so you can totally up your winter fashion game this season.This is a HUGE article, so I broke it up into sections. Just use the Table of Contents below if you want to jump around. Enjoy!Jump To Any SectionToggleThe Best Winter Colors, Fabrics, and FitBack To TopHere’s the TL;DR for your winter clothing’s colors, fabrics, and general fit:When it comes tocolorsfor clothing, you’re going fordarker, richer tones.And withfabrics, aheavier weight and more texture.As far asfit, clothes shouldstart slim and gradually become more roomyand relaxed.See the sections below for more detail.The Best Colors for Men’s Clothing in Fall and Winter (Outfit Color Coordination)When you think of fall, winter, and cold weather, what images pop up in your head? For me, it’s stuff like this:Winter vibes… am I right? (photos byAlisa Anton,Roberto Nickson, andPixabay)And when you think of spring, summer, and hot weather, what images do you think of?Ahhh… this image evokes spring and summer vibes. (Photos byJess Vide,Nitin Dhumal, andMelanie Wupperman)When it comes to color, think of your wardrobe the same way.For colder weather and the fall and winter seasons, take advantage of darker, richer, and deeper colors: navy, charcoal, camel, eggplant purple, forest green, burgundy, etc.My winter wardrobe consists of much darker colors such as these. Often, I keep it simple with black, navy, grey, and brown. My staples, like chambrayshirts, OCBDs, and grey T-shirts, are the lightest colors that stay in the closet.Example of a spring / summer palette (two left) vs. a fall / winter palette (two right).And for spring and summer, we go the opposite route:lighter colors and pastels (white, light grey, light blue, lavender, light pink, cream / tan)bright and vibrant hues (neon green, orange, magenta, electric blue)fun patterns and printsI even wear my dark denim less, and instead, swap them with my lightweight, stretch, light-wash denim. The only dark colors I have during spring and summer are my olive and navy linenshirts.View this post on InstagramA post shared by Effortless Gent | effortlessgent.com (@effortlessgent)See our article ondressing for warm weatherif it’s currently summer where you live.The Best Fabrics for Cold Weather ClothingWhen it comes to men’s winter fashion and style, the fabrics you wear will be heavier and thicker, warmer and more insular. This keeps the body heat in when you’re outside braving the colder temperatures.Forsuitsand sport coats, we’re talking winter-weight wools, flannels, and tweeds.Sporting an all-season wool suit? You’ll have to compensate for lack of warmth by layering up with long johns and thermals. Or by adding mid-layers such as a sweater or thinquilted vestunderneath your suit jacket.View this post on InstagramA post shared by Barron | Minimalist Wardrobe (@effortlessgent)For casual clothing,you’ll probably be wearing:DenimHeavier-weight chinosTwill and flannelshirtsThicker wool, cotton, and cashmereHeavier canvas, down-filled, orwool outerwearWinter fashion for men consists of plenty of heavier cottons, wools, thicker knits, more substantial wovenshirts, etc. All layers in general are thicker to keep in warmth.Contrast that with my spring and summer clothing, which isall lightweight everything, from my denim and chinos, to the linenshirtsI wear. And forget about layering; I avoid more than one layer unless I absolutely have to (like if I’m going to a nice dinner or getting drinks, I’ll throw on a linen or lightweight, unlined wool sport coat).Looking for layering inspiration?Check out this Pinterest board I put together with plenty ofwinter layering ideas.How Should Men’s Winter Clothing Fit?In short, very similarly to how your clothes should fit every other season: Relatively slim and form fitting, but not overly tight, so you have enough room to move around.There’s a caveat: in winter, we tend to layer our clothing—think thermal underwear, button-upshirt, sweater, and coat—so the thickness and fit of each layer should be strategic.In general, our outermost layers tend to be a more relaxed fit in order to accommodate the layers underneath. You’d never want a pea coat so slim that you can’t wear anything more than a button-upshirtunderneath.We’ll get into the details next.How To Wear Layers In Winter: A Guide To Doing It RightBack To TopMen’s winter fashion requires you to work with thicker, heavier fabrics, and doing a bit more layering.Remember these basic guidelines. Layers should go:thin → thickslim → loose / relaxedlightweight → heavySo if you combine those three guidelines, the layers closest to your skin should be thinnest, slim fit, and lightweight.As you build your outfit, each layer progressively gets thicker and heavier, and has a more relaxed fit to accommodate all the layers underneath.Two different layered outfit examples. You’d start with theshirtand end with the coats.Read more in this article.two benefits to layeringWell, there are a few benefits, but here are the main two:It’s easier to regulate your body temperature.You get too warm, you take off a few layers. Get chilly and you put a few back on. Contrast that with a T-shirt and a thick puff coat. That non-layered combo doesn’t leave you with many options, does it?Your outfits lookwaaaaymore interestingand extra layers give you a bit more leeway to experiment with your style.This also helps with overall comfort and fit. If you have thick, loose, and / or bulky pieces underneath layers that are slimmer, thinner, or more lightweight… that would be really uncomfortable.Check out our article oneffective layeringor theselayering tipsfor real life examples.Smart Casual Clothes: A Man’s Winter Style GuideBack To TopFirst, let’s cover a few basics about your fall and winter smart casual clothing. We’ve already gone over colors, fabrics, and fit. You might be wondering, “How muchclothing should I have?”The ideal number of clothes in your lean, minimalist fall/winter wardrobe will depend on yoursituation, lifestyle, and surroundings. If you’re still in the process ofbuildingyourlean, minimalist wardrobe, the following suggestions will help.If you have a lean wardrobe, putting together outfits is simple. And transitioning them from spring/summer to fall/winter is just as easy.You’ll love this one, too!Men’s Wardrobe Essentials: The Clothes A Man Needs In His Minimalist WardrobeThis is what I consider to be the perfect Lean Wardrobe outfit. While I’m more casual nowadays, I still consider this my base uniform, and would wear this 99% of the time if I worked in a“business casual”environment.Levis Tapered Denim,Uniqlo OCBD shirt,SuitSupply sport coat,Allen Edmonds loafersHere’s a bit of social media proof 😉View this post on InstagramA post shared by Barron | Minimalist Wardrobe (@effortlessgent)Each piece of the outfit separately can be swapped out with similar items that are more appropriate for the season or the venue.With each suggestion below, imagine swapping it out with the default option above. And for items that don’t exist in the default option (mid-layers), simply add it in (e.g.,shirt+ vest + sport coat)In terms of weather-appropriateness (thicker, warmer layers), here’s what I would suggest:Fall and WinterShirtsBonoboschambray button downandtwill button downshirts; Todd Snyderbutton down flannelChambray isn’t exactly a fall- and winter-specificshirt. But… I think of it like denim: easily worn year-round. So if you already have a favorite chambray, keep on wearing it through the winter months.As far as OCBDs, brands make lighter-weight versions for spring and summer. But yourstandard Oxford clothis pretty substantial and a great option for fall and winter.J. Crew Brushed Twill ShirtSoft and lightweight, perfect for cold weather temperatures. Many colors and styles available.Check Latest PriceTodd Snyder Flannel ShirtsStarting at $54Check Latest PriceI’d also consider flannel and twillshirtsas men’s winter fashion appropriate; they keep you warmer during the winter months. Both casual and more formal options exist in both fabrics.Fall and Winter Mid-LayersJ.Crew Factory Walker vest,SuitSupply padded vest,J.Crew merino v-neck sweaterMid-layers are the secret sauce of perfectly-layered wardrobes.Instead of wearing one heavy coat, wear a mid-layer and a jacket or light coat (or put on your heavy coat if it’s really cold out).Having two warm layers makes it easier to regulate body temperature, vs. just ashirtand a thick, heavy coat.J.Crew Factory Walker Vest$99 (but usually on sale)Great budget quilted vest that's perfect for layering in colder temperatures.Check Latest PriceIf it gets too warm and you only have a coat on, you’re out of luck. Your only option is to take off the coat. That’s all you have. With no mid-layer, you’ll get cold four minutes later and have to put the coat back on. And then take it off when you get warm again… it’s a vicious cycle.Aesthetically, you can put together a more interesting look with multiple layers. So really, sweaters and vests not only regulate body temps better, they also add extraoomphto your outfit.It’s important to make sure you have2-3 versatile middle layers, such as vests and quarter zip sweaters (which are pretty much interchangeable). To maximize versatility, stick with neutral colors like grey, navy, black, tan or brown.Most guys have a plenty of inner layers (like button upshirts) and outer layers (lightweight jackets), but the crucial middle layer is sometimes overlooked. My current favorite affordable middle layer is theJ.Crew Factory Walker vest.Brock McGoffFounder,The Modest ManFall and Winter PantsMid-grey flannel trousers, Bonoboswashed chinosDenim is a great option for fall and winter. If you getthe right pairof denim, you’ll be able to wear it casually (T-shirt, sport coat, and loafers, just like my default Lean Wardrobe outfit at the beginning of this section).EG's TOP PICKBonobos Chinos$98Your search for the perfect chinos ends here. Bonobos' chinos offer superior comfort, dozens of colors, and quality that lasts.SHOP NOWYou can also choose heavier-weight chinos. And for a dressier option that can still be worn casually, you can’t go wrong withflannel trousers.Fall and Winter ShoesChippewa Service boot (or my preference, themoc toe boot),Allen Edmonds Strand(Beckett Simonon makesa nice alternative)I typically wear brogues during the colder months, as I prefer a lighter-weight unlined leather or suede loafer when it’s hot out.Thursday Boots Diplomat in Arizona Adobe"Essential moc toe boot handcrafted with Goodyear welt construction, Vibram's famous Christy outsoles, long-lasting Kevlar® blend laces, and our own Rugged & Resilient leather."Check Latest PriceShop Thursday BootsFor a dressed-down shoe that you can wear with all the options we mention above (yep, even thosetailored trousers!High / Lowfor the win), throw on work boots or a pair ofChelsea boots.For a smart, sharp option, go with theAllen Edmonds Strand, an awesome cap toe with beautiful brogue detailing. You’ll see the dark brown model above, but my favorite is the AE Strand in Walnut.Beckett Simonon Kent Wingtips$209Check Latest PriceI also love theBeckett Simonon Kent wingtipsas an alternative. Great shoes made when you order, all at a wallet-friendly price point.Fall and Winter OuterwearBarbour quilted jacket,Todd Snyder Peacoat(J.Crew’sDock peacoatis my go-to),Uniqlo Ultra Light down parkaOuterwear, like the ones you see in the image above, are an obvious necessity for fall and winter.In terms of how many outerwear pieces or what kind of outerwear pieces you need, use your best judgment.If you live in a really cold climate, you may need multiple outerwear pieces with serious insulation. If you live in a more temperate area, you could probably get away with just a pea coat or a quilted jacket (plus layers, of course).I have a number of outerwear pieces and I find a peacoat, overcoat, or down jacket can get me through a typical New York City winter. Your mileage may vary, depending on how hot or cold you get.Barbour Liddesdale Quilted Jacket$200A classic quilted look with a corduroy collar. Lightweight fall / winter jacket perfect for layering on the colder days.Shop AmazonShop Macy'sSport Coats as Outerwear? MaybeA quick aside: Let’s chat about sport coats as well, because depending on where you live, a heavier wool sport coat can serve as your outerwear,such as these ones from SuitSupply.Here’s a little tip when it comes to sport coats:Look at them as jackets, instead of “half a suit”. That helps make them less intimidating and easier to incorporate into more outfits.View this post on InstagramA post shared by Effortless Gent | effortlessgent.com (@effortlessgent)They’ll make you look sharper even if the outfit has plenty of casual elements (like denim or white leather sneakers).For extra warmth, opt for sport coats in a winter-weight wool or tweed. And for a smart, sharp, casual look, you can layer up with a V-neck sweater or a down vest.Smart Casual Fall and Winter Style Upgrades: Try These Stylish TwistsBack To TopIf you want to add a teeny bit of excitement to an otherwise standard outfit—of course, there’s nothing wrong with a standard, foundational look— here are a few ideas and tips to try when getting dressed during the fall and winter months.DitchGinghamFor a Windowpane or Graph CheckYou’ve seen windowpane and graph checks before, but maybe you skipped them and went for aginghampatternedshirtinstead, because that’s more familiar.Give one of these checks a try for fall / winter! It’s a great way to switch it up from your typicalginghamor striped button-upshirts. Between these two, you have enough variety, in terms of check size and potential color combos.Charles Tyrwhitt Graph Check Shirt$89Check Latest PriceFor the office, a light graph check dressshirtunder a solid colored sweater is a nice alternative to the solid dressshirtmost people expect.And if you want something more casual and bold, go for a windowpane (basically a larger grid) with more color contrast, or a version with a dark ground color (like navy) under a lighter-colored windowpane pattern.Wear Chinos In Deep, Vibrant, Rich Fall / Winter TonesIf you love brightly colored chinos in the summer, you can do the same thing for the winter. Just switch to darker shades and earthier tones like burgundy, slate grey, chocolate brown, and hunter green.EG's TOP PICKBonobos Chinos$98Your search for the perfect chinos ends here. Bonobos' chinos offer superior comfort, dozens of colors, and quality that lasts.SHOP NOWThe darker, richer, more vibrant colors work perfectly for cold weather style. Remember, you want to mimic the colors of the season (scroll up for a refresher on spring / summer tones vs. fall / winter tones).Wool Flannel Trousers: The Versatile, “High / Low Style” OptionThe wool flannel trouser is a great piece for fall and winter. The warm cloth keeps you cozy, but the tailored trouser style keeps you looking sharp.It’s an easy stand-in for chinos, and if you feel too “dressed up” in them, use thehigh / low techniqueto balance it out—think a crewneck sweatshirt up top, or a T-shirt and denim jacket.Brooks Brothers Flannel TrousersStarting at $148Several fits and colors available.Check Latest PriceIt might not be the standout piece in your outfit, but it will definitely be the workhorse. The look and texture of these trousers go well with anything in your cold weather wardrobe. And they’reeasy to dress both up and down. Win-win!Another option I love isdonegal wool trousers(and sport coats, of course). The ground colors are deep, vibrant, seasonally-appropriate shades. The cloth (donegal tweed) has interesting texture and different colored yarns interwoven in the fabric. From afar, it’s one color… but up close, it’s unique and colorful andso cool.Wear A Denim Jacket As a Mid-LayerOn transitional days or when you need extra warmth over a lightweight sweater, a denim jacket is a classic look. You can keep it casual or even rock a tie with your denim if you style it right,like in these five examples.Levi's Denim Jacket$89.50$53.70The original jean jacket since 1967. Can buy true to size for the perfect fit, or size up if you want to wear a thicker layer undreneath. 100% Cotton, button closure, hits at hip.Check Latest Price09/12/2025 07:00 am GMTSportswear That’s Sharp and Tailored, Not SloppyAthleisure is here to stay, but that doesn’t mean casual and comfy can’t look good.The joggers and sweatshirts available nowadays are much, much sharper and cooler looking than your typical Fruit Of The Loom sweatsuit set you find at Wal-Mart or low-end department stores.Check out how brands like John Elliott and Nike are doing it. Mid-tier options likeFlint and Tinder, and budget options fromAsos,Uniqlo, evenSpier & Mackayalso exist.A basic style upgrade? Trading in your ill-fitting, ratty college sweatshirt for a simplegrey crewneck sweatshirtthat you candress up or down with ease.EG's TOP PICKTodd Snyder Sweatshirts$88+Todd Snyder makes effortless everyday luxuries for the modern gentlemanCheck Latest PriceShawl Collar Cardigans: Update your Standard Crewneck SweaterV-neck and crewneck sweaters are great for layering. But if you want a piece with a rugged edge, look no further than the shawl collar cardigan.Versatilityis its greatest asset. It can evoke a classic outdoorsman style, or it can be a bit dressier—you can’t go wrong. Usethese tips to choosethe right one for you.LLBean Signature Shawl Cardigan$149Check Latest PriceInvest in a Great Leather JacketOutside of the suit, a leather jacket is one of the biggest investments in your wardrobe. Just like a suit, there’s something transformative about putting on a properly fitted leather jacket.There’s no other way to describe it: You feel like a badass. Check out ourguide to choosing the right leather jacket.If you’re looking for a biker style, I love theAllsaints Conroy biker jacket. And they have a few bomber style leather jackets as well.Allsaints Conroy Biker Jacket$559Check Latest PriceFall, or as I like to call it, “light jacket season”, is my favorite time of year. You’re still dressing in a way that’s about style, not necessarily utility. You want to actually look good, not just feel warm.I like to play a game where I see how long I can wear mysummer clothes, just bylayering in cooler weather pieces. If the temperatures stay as warm as they’ve been, this year I’m shooting for November.Megan CollinsFounder,Style GirlfriendFall/WinterSuitsand Dress ClothesBack To TopAre men’ssuitsfor the fall and winter seasons different from spring and summersuiting?YES! Absolutely. Whilesuitingmaylooksimilar, the differences are in the fabric.Somesuitsare designated as “three season” or “all season”, but you’ll definitely need fall- and winter-friendlysuits, especially if you have to wear a suit and tie for the office.If you dress in a casual or smart casual style most days, then you can get away with just one or two fall / wintersuitsfor those special occasions and parties.How to Wear a Suit and Tie in Cold WeatherA few years back, I attended a wedding in Mexico. I was one of the groomsmen, and we were all asked to wear mid-greysuits, whiteshirts, and a floral tie. Pretty simple.I bought a Ludlow Traveler suit from J.Crew (Update: If I had to buy today, I would suggest theSuitSupply Traveller) because I knew I had to:Get that suit all the way to Mexico, and I didn’t want to worry about wrinkling, either in my suitcase or on my body, andThe Ludlow Traveler is unlined and lightweight, perfect for the hot Mexico sun (same goes forSuitSupply’s version).View this post on InstagramA post shared by Barron | Minimalist Wardrobe (@effortlessgent)One of the groomsmen had a mid-grey suit made from a winter-weight wool (poor guy). This was, legit, something you’d wear to work in the wintertime.Not only was I DYING in my (lightweight, unlined, unstructured, breathable) suit, but I had to stand still as much as possible so I didn’t sweat profusely. I felt so bad for this guy; I can’t imagine how hot he must’ve been.One suit is wool flannel, the other is a lightweight wool… can you tell the difference between the two, just by looking at them? (bothsuitsviaBrooks Brothers)If you don’t wearsuitsoften, you don’t realize how many different types of fabric they can be made from.Something that’s appropriate to wear in winter is definitelynotone that can be worn to a summer wedding in Mexico.Just like you have casualshirtsthat work better in winter than in summer (and vice versa), you will havesuitsthat are better for colder weather.“What kind of fabric should my fall / wintersuitsbe made from?”Wool flannel is among the comfiest and warmestsuitingfabrics.Remember that 100% wool cloth comes in different weights, with 12 oz being the minimum you want for a winter suit. Any lighter and you’re in “all-season” weight. Thatcanwork, but depending on how cold it gets where you live, you may need to layer up.a nice selection of fall and winter fabrics for MTMsuits, viaBlack Lapel(top) andOliver Wicks(bottom)If you’re buyingsuitsoff the rack (or evenmade-to-measure), you most likely won’t have to worry about picking a specific weight as they’re categorized by season. So you simply shop for fall/wintersuitingor spring/summersuiting, and you’re good.Once you start going custom, that’s when you can select the specific cloth and weight.Check This One Out, Too!I tried SuitSupply’s new Custom Made program. Here’s how my suit turned out.“Are some colors better than others for fall and wintersuits?”For a Lean Wardrobe, regardless of season, you’ll want a standard navy and/or mid-grey suit. Other colors that work for fall and winter weather specifically? Brown, rust, forest green, even an ash (light) grey.If you wearsuitsevery day, you have more options (stripes, checks, herringbone, houndstooth… the list goes on), since you have the opportunity to wear them all.But if youdon’twearsuitsoften and you’re concerned about versatility and not looking like you own only one suit, stick to a simple navy and/or mid-grey color with no obvious pattern.A bit of texture, on the other hand, can’t hurt.“What are the bestshirts, ties, and shoes for winter?”Everything in your outfit should match the common theme… in this case, weather.Not only should your suit be cold-weather appropriate, so should yourshirt, tie, coat, and all your accessories. Meaning… you’re not going to wear a thin linenshirtwith your wool flannel suit.You won’t be rocking unlined suede loafers in the snow with your heavy wool coat either.Every element in your outfit needs to follow the theme of “winter fashion” for it to make the most sense, not only from a look and feel perspective, but also from a practicality standpoint.Need some winter outfit inspiration?Check out my Pinterest board full of men’s outfit inspiration for the cold fall and winter months:Forshirts:Opt for a heavier dressshirtin pinpoint oxford, twill, or flannel. Curious about the characteristics of different cloths? Check out the reference guide from our friends atProper Cloth. They’re a great option forMTM shirts. For a nice selection of affordable yet well-fitting off-the-rackshirts, check outTie Bar’s dress shirts.For ties:I loooveThe Tie Bar’s wool ties. They produce asubstantial knotand look great with heavier-weight suit jackets and sport coats. Oh, and they’re crazy affordable.EG's TOP PICKThe Tie Bar$25+Tie Bar is the best place to find neckties for men to match virtually any dress shirt, suit, or jacketCheck Latest PriceFor a more upscale brand with gorgeous ties,check out Drake’s.Grenadine knit ties (navy and burgundy are perfectLean Wardrobe staples) also work well in the winter… actually, year-round. And you can’t go wrong with a standard silk tie. Just make sure thecolor palette makes sense with the rest of your outfit.For shoes:Beckett Simonon Kent wingtipsin brown. Make sure to wearSwims overshoesto protect them from water and salt.A super simple secret to creating a sharp, layered outfit for fall ischoosing pieces with different textures. Tweeds, chunky knit sweaters, flannels, wool overcoats, denim and chambrayshirtsall stack to build an intentional look.Andrew SnavelyFounder,Primer MagazineHow Fall and Winter Clothes Should FitAs I mentioned in mysummer clothesarticle, I prefer my warm-weather outfits to be a bit looser and more breathable. I don’t like clothing that’s tight and restrictive, especially when it’s hot and humid.It’s the opposite for dressing in winter, especially as you layer. You want to make surethe layers closest to your skin are the most fitted. That avoids any extra bulk or wrinkling as you put on more layers, which issuperannoying and uncomfortable.Here’s an example: sweaters.Bulky or chunky wool / cotton sweaters can be difficult to layer, unless, of course, it’s your topmost layer.If you want to wear a sweater under a sport coat, then it should be a thinner (finer gauge) wool or cashmere version with higher armholes toget the perfect fit. It looks better, will be more comfortable as you wear it, and is much easier to layer.Check This One Out, Too!How To Layer Your Clothes (Effectively and Comfortably)Blazers give some guys trouble too. Summer-weight sport coatscanbe relatively slimmer, but you need a bit more space in the winterso you can layera sweater under it. Get the details in ourguide to finding the perfect fit for your blazers, regardless of the season.You may notice some parkas andtopcoatsare slightly oversized. You go with your normal size from a brand you know well, but it’s still too big. What gives?It’s assumed you’ll be layering underneath, and the coat is designed to accommodate those extra layers. If you don’t plan on layering, you may be able to size down, but if it were me, I’d buy my true size, in case I want to layer. Choose your size accordingly.Smart Casual AccessoriesYou can elevate your smart casual look with a few carefully chosen accessories. Don’t go crazy here, butdomake your outfit stand out with a few stylish touches.ScarfAwool or cashmere scarfis the perfect cold weather accessory. You can go with a fall/winter solid, neutral color (like grey) and your scarf will work with anything in your closet. Or choose a standout statement scarf in a colorful plaid.Barbour Wool Cashmere Tartan Scarf$80"A wool cashmere blend fabric in an all-over signature Barbour tartan pattern. Perfect for chilly days."Shop BarbourNon-Boring Leather GlovesEveryone has a pair ofleather gloveswith the three stitch design across the top. Upgrade to a pair that’s a little different.Think quilted cross stitching on the exterior, a racing inspired snap clasp at the wrist, or a combination leather and knit glove.Men's Gloves at Huckberry$98.50Great options from brands like Hestra, Patagonia, Elmer, and more.Shop HuckberryWatchEven if you’re used to checking the time on your phone,your timepieceis a fun way to show off personal style. ATimexWeekendergoes well with everything and looks right at home as a fall staple. It may even become your new everyday statement piece.Timex x Todd SnyderStarting at $128Check out the unique collaboration pieces with Timex and Todd Snyder.Check Latest PriceA BeanieGotta keep your noggin toasty, right? Abeanie, or skullcap, or watch cap, or simply “knit hat” is a must if you want to stay warm in temps below 40°F. I prefer the plushy knits that have a good bouncy loft, vs the styles that are very close and tight on your head… but to each his own.Carhartt Beanie$19.99"This men's acrylic watch hat is made of stretchy rib knit that's soft to the touch and finished with a Carhartt patch on the front."Shop Amazon09/11/2025 07:03 pm GMTWinter BeardYou don’t have to go full on lumberjack. But a bit of well groomed facial hair always fits in during the colder months. To stay professional and well trimmed, keep your neck shaved smooth and your beard lines well defined. The more stubble creep you allow, the less polished it looks.Looking for great beard care products? Look no further thanour friends at Beardbrand. I don’t have a beard, but I use their hair care and grooming products and they’re my fave.Tired of the mess you see in and around the sink after trimming your beard?This Philips Norelco trimmercomes equipped with a hair-capturing vacuum. At first it sounds like a gimmick, but after you use it a few times you’ll realize it cuts down on the mess by about 90%.Brio Beardscape Beard and Body Trimmer v2$120The ultimate tool to manage your beard, stubble, and body hair. The Beardscape makes an excellent hair trimmer and is perfect for any of your "manscaping" needs.Shop BrioA Flask!Taking pulls from a flask in the dead of summer means you might have a bit of a problem. But using a flask to carry and consume dark rum,whiskey, orbourbonafter the leaves have started to fall is just too enjoyable to pass up.Stanley Classic 8 oz Wide-Mouth Flask$35.72Check Latest Price09/12/2025 12:05 am GMTUse it to spike coffee or hot chocolate, or take it for a walk with you while you listen to a Saturday afternoon football game.Just be responsible, inconspicuous, and aware of your city’s public drinking laws.I think a natural tendency for a lot of guys is to grab their puffy coat when it’s cold outside and call it a day. They’re missing out on an opportunity to create a more interesting look with layers, especially when youcontrast things like casual and formal pieces.A great example recently when it was cold: I threw a double breasted blazer over my denim jacket and got a ton of compliments. You can do something similar—wearing a leather jacket under a topcoat, or swapping in a flannel henley in place of a plain undershirt, unbuttoning your dressshirta bit and letting the henley peak out.What’s great about adding more layering to your fall style is that it lets you wear some of your spring/summer clothes that would normally be too thin when it gets cold out.Peter NguyenFounder,The Essential ManFall / Winter Footwear: Choosing and Caring for Your ShoesBack To TopThe wet, slushy, snowy season requires some thoughtful footwear choices. I still see guys walking around in the rain with jeans, Vans, and a hoodie… which confuses me. Is your goal to absorb as much moisture as possible?It comes down todressing appropriately for every occasion,and canvas shoes don’t hold up well in a storm.Check This One Out, Too!Looking For The Best Sock Brands? Here Are 11 Of Our Favorites (All Different Lengths)Start with SocksGo withmerino wool socksfor a thickness and warmth without the massive bulk of most heavy winter socks. They can replace your typicalsummer cotton socksand will winterize even your lightweight sneakers and loafers. Just don’t wear them with a suit… that still calls for a dressier sock.EG's TOP PICKBoardroom Socks$11+From the yarns they use to their meticulous design, Boardroom Socks' commitment to quality traces all the way through the production process. Each pair of socks is hand-inspected before being shipped to your door.Check Latest PriceWinter-Ready Shoes and BootsTimberland EarthkeepersI still love the classic wheat-colored boot from the days when I used to wear baggier jeans in the late 90s. If I could remember to pull them out of the closet at my parents’ house, I’d wear them.Timberland Men's Earthkeeper Original 6" Boot$160.00$122.25Check Latest Price09/11/2025 09:04 pm GMTBut if I had to start from scratch with Timberland, I’d pick up this pair.Chippewa Original 6″ Moc ToeThis pair from Chippewa has been in my regular rotation for at least the past five winter seasons. They’re really comfortable right out of the box (no break-in period), and I love the contrast of the black leather with off-white sole.Chippewa Six-Inch Moc Toe BootCheck Latest PriceThe Vibram sole is another plus; really lightweight and comfortable when walking. Plus it has just enough grip that I’m not slipping and sliding on NYC’s sidewalks.This has been around for a number of years and it’s possible Chippewa has discontinued them. If so, theDiplomat from Thursday Bootsis aesthetically similar, possibly even a bit more sleek.L.L.Bean Original Bean BootsThese are myrainy day go-tos. I slip them on and go jump in puddles.L.L.Bean Bean Bootsstarting at $99Our legendary Maine-made L.L.Bean Boot – designed by "L.L." himself in 1912 and keeping feet dry and comfortable ever since. Chances are, you’ll only ever need one pair.Check Latest PriceOne complaint: After all these years owning the same pair, the outsole can still be slippery from time to time. I’m not fully sure why.Other than that, they’ve been dependable, keep my feet dry, and are a classic look that goes with a ton ofrugged casual outfits.Sorel Caribou Winter BootI have a few friends who swear by their Sorel winter boots.Sorel Caribou Waterproof Boot$160.00$150.00Check Latest Price09/12/2025 02:00 am GMTI can see why: they’re waterproof with sealed seams, a full grain leather upper, removable felt inner boot, and non-slip rubber lug outsole. Your toes will definitely stay toasty and dry.Personally, I never get that cold, and in my seven years here in New York, I haven’t experienced a prolonged enough winter to where these would be necessary.But if you live in an area that experiences extreme cold, consider the Caribou boots from Sorel!Beckett Simonon Kent Wingtips (For The Office)You can rock these wingtips with a suit to work or with a rolled pant on the weekend to show off the heft of the sole.Beckett Simonon Kent Wingtips$209Check Latest PricePersonally, a chunky brogue is my go-to versatile statement piece for fall and winter. Thisbrown colorcan easily pair with your suit or be dressed down with jeans for a dapper happy hour look.Make sure tochoose your socks with caution. Patterns and colors are OK, but better to go with something understated over loud or “fun”.So stylistically, these are fall / winter ready, but weather-wise, not so much. For the particularly rainy days, you may want agalosh or overshoeto protect the shoe’s leather.How to Wear Boots with Every OutfitI once got an email asking:“What’s the best way to wear (these boots) with my pants?”Sure, it may seem a little daunting. You’re accustomed to shoes ending at the ankle.To be honest, the only right way is whatever keeps you most dry.Cuff up your denim (tips in this video), let them sit in between the boot’s tongue and back tab, or tuck them in if you have to. What matters most is arriving to your destination dry.If your cuff naturally drapes over the boot, that’s fine. But if your pants get wet, start rolling them up! Don’t stress about the rules of winter fashion. Adapt, my friends. Adapt.Protect Your Leather Shoes from Wet WeatherIf you work in a formal setting that requiresleather dress shoes, they’ll be okay, so long as you putcedar shoe treesin them at the end of the day. Let the leather rest. That’s very important.Shoe trees. Rest for a day.If you have to walk places in wet weather, you might want to invest in someovershoeswhich will further protect the shoes’ leather from the elements.If it’s an extra snowy day, I’d suggest taking your shoesin your bag(video), and wearing snow boots on your commute. Change when you get to the office.How To Deal With Salt Stains On Your ShoesPeeps in snowy areas,watchout for salt on your leather shoes. Salt + leather shoes = sad face, big time. This is all the more reason to NOT wear your nice leather shoes when you’re commuting by foot (and whereboots like the Sorelswould come in handy).If you absolutelymustwear your leather shoes when braving the elements (and you don’t already have a pair ofovershoes, tsk tsk) treat them with care as soon as you reach your destination.A simple wipe-off should suffice.Be thorough; any stray slush or salt water will stain your shoes. And getting that stain removed is a pain in the butt.Conditioning and polishing the leatherwill help keep your shoes in tip-top shape and ready for whatever you throw at it.This is another reason (if you haven’t yet been motivated) to polish your shoes regularly.Think of it like moisturizing your skin after showering. If you don’t moisturize, you dry out, your skin gets rough and cracked, etc.Your leather shoeswork the same way.Want a step-by-step solution for de-salting (that’s not a word) your shoes? Check outthis concise guidefrom Valet Magazine.How to Avoid Slipping on the IceIf you’re more concerned about your own safety (walking around on wet, icy, or snowy ground with leather soles is not very fun or sexy), then you have some alternatives.Take your leather-soled shoes to a cobbler and have athin rubber layeradded. Many places do this and it shouldn’t be tough to find a cobbler who knows what you’re asking for.I’ve heard arguments for and against this method. Some say it’s perfectly fine and they haven’t experienced any problems. Others have said adding a rubber layer decreases the breathability of the leather and can trap in moisture which leads to rotting, curling of the rubber, and in general, ruins your shoes long term.I’ll leave it up to you to do the research and decide whether or not this is a good solution for you.Another option I keep suggesting throughout this article is to useSwims, which are overshoes (aka galoshes) that protect your shoes from the elements. They also increase your sole’s grip so you don’t slip and slide.Some people think this is super nerdy. Others (like myself) think they look kinda cool. I don’t yet own a pair, but I’m inclined to pick some up and try them out. I encourage you to do the same; feel free to report back to me for extra bonus points.For me, the best solution is a pair of dress shoes with a rubber or combination rubber/leather sole that you use on rainy and wet days.(More on that in ourcomplete guide to brown leather shoes.)The grippy rubber keeps you safe, minimizing slippage as you walk around. Aesthetically, you get the same look as your other dress shoes. The only difference is the less formal (but grippier) rubber sole.How do YOU dress for fall and winter?Back To TopWhat it really boils down to is this: The perfect men’s winter fashion for you will depend on1.) weatherand2.) formality.Why?Weather:If you’re in Minnesota, your fall and winter wardrobe will look a bit different than someone’s in Miami or Manhattan.Formality:If you’re usually in business/formal environments, your everyday outfits will look different compared with that of a freelance web designer who works out of coffee shops.Regardless, this is how it works: Start with a base outfit from your Lean Wardrobe (your uniform, what you typically wear most days) and Autumnize it (I just made up that word) by adding warmer, thicker, softer fabrics.Where do YOU live? And what’s typical winter wear for you? Tell me below in the comments.ARTICLE UPDATES01/09/2023Added new text and sections, added images, updated text and links10/18/2021Updated Instagram examples, fixed broken links, fixed quote author images01/24/2021Fixed broken links09/24/2020Published